todo.md, before:


1. Draw grid
2. Draw snake
3. Draw food

Cahnges
	- extended class Food
	- added drawing grid and spawn_food methods
	- added random Point generator
	- 

Changes:
	- added getters to Map class
	- added draw and movement methods to Snake class
	- keybord processing

Changes
	- added reset methods to Map and Snake
	- collision detection with walls
	- added set method to Point class

Changes:
	- fixed bug with one snake movement delay
	- fixed food respawn glitch
	- added score to window title
	- process keybord method moved from Snake to Game class
	- added varaible for adjusting snake's speed

Changes:
	- minor refactoring
	- cleanup of diagnostic messages
	- fixed bug with score after reset

Changes:
	- partially developed an api to get input for AI.
	Need to add diagonal distance to snake's body
	- added function for printing net input parameters
	- partially tested

Changes:
	- Added class Layer with initial structure
	- Created method Matrix::mutate
	- Added helper function to generate random ints in range
	- Added unit tests for Matrix class

Changes:
	- Added and tested methods to Layer class
	- Finished Snake API
	- Added mat getter to Matrix class
	- Unit tests moved to separate test class

Changes:
	- updated Layer::process
	- added destructor ~Layer
	- added NeuralNet class
	- added helper function to convert std::vector to Matrix object
	- NeuralNet::pass tested prelimenary

Changes:
	- Another c-tor for Layer class added, getters added
	- Added Matrix::clone()
	- Added TestLayer class, crossover tested. To be updated
	- Methods in Matrix reorganized

Changes:
	- Added copy c-top to Layer class
	- Added const qualifiers to some Matrix methods
	- NeuralNet: c-tor from layers and crossover method were implemented
	- Refactoring of tests/main.cpp

Changes:
	- Added SnakeAI class
	- Added test for SnakeAI
	- Slightly changes signature of Snake's methods
	- Added copy c-tor for NeuralNet, tests refactored

### TODO: 

- Thorely test snake api. Make a separape project?
- how to dump a net to file and resore back?
- Too many parameters in c-tors: 
	Make singletons for MapPArams and game window
	Create default c-tor for Food
- Design Population class
- solve Eigen randomizing issues. Test
- Add multithreading for quick computations

### Done:
+ design fitness function
+ Design SnakeAI class: snake itself, neural brain, numreb of steps, fitness
+ Add class Net
+ dont forget to add destructors everywhere
+ Rename project to Snake-AI-SFML
+ Develop an API to get inputs for a neural network:
	8 rays from snake's head, eacn ray gievs 3 numbers:
	- distance to wall
	- distance to food (-1 if not encountered)
	- distance to snake's body (-1 if not encountered)
	plus additional input for the length
	plus current direction (in case if snake can kill itsef by changind dir to 180*)

X rework randomizing algorith: food items lay on diagonal y = -x. 
	Consider another random distribution (e.i. normal distribution for 2D points)
+ add some borders to snake's body segments. Draw a line along all bricks
X disable move in reverse direction. Need to make a dicision: either to prohibit such
	behavior or consider it as death
+ rework food spawning: chack for snake body parts
+ mark snake's head with another color
+ upgrade move method: collision detection with walls and with snake itself
+ add score to the screen
+ enable snake growing
+ add speed parameter, tune delay in main cycle to 60 fps

### Idea #1
- Когда будет реализована и отлажена нейросеть, можно реализовать алгоритм борьбы с 
переобучением/запоминаним. Например, drop out

### Idea #2
- Можно реализовать обработку кадра с помощью компьютерного зрения.
Т.е. змейка будет получать не вектор из 25-и параметров, в кадр ака скрин с экрана,
который она должна проанализировать и принять решение куда двигаться. Можно добавить
шумы к кадру, чтобы посложнее было. 
	Цель: повспоминать средства библиотки OpenCV, бинаризацию, поик контуров и т.д.

### Idea #3
- Можно добавить стены! Тогда алгоритм зрения необходимо будет доработать для
распознавания стен


### Notes:
	что требуется, радзработать алгоритм обучения с подкреплением.
	Это один из видов обучения с учителем, где учителем выступает среда.

	Агент действует в среде, среда даёт агенту обратную связь.
	Агент корректирует своё поведение

	Для QLearning есть часть исследования среды

### Изучение проекта SnakeAI

- в качестве функции активации используется relu = max(0, x)
- случайные значения берутся в диапазоне от -1 до 1
- нейросеть представлена таблицей (класс Matrix)
- crossover - перестановка случайных строк таблиц

Commit message:

- Added Population class - Added step() method to Snake class 	in order to simulate several AIs simultaneously - Added another c-tor and randomize() method to Snake class - Added test to Population class

todo.md, after:


1. Draw grid
2. Draw snake
3. Draw food

Cahnges
	- extended class Food
	- added drawing grid and spawn_food methods
	- added random Point generator
	- 

Changes:
	- added getters to Map class
	- added draw and movement methods to Snake class
	- keybord processing

Changes
	- added reset methods to Map and Snake
	- collision detection with walls
	- added set method to Point class

Changes:
	- fixed bug with one snake movement delay
	- fixed food respawn glitch
	- added score to window title
	- process keybord method moved from Snake to Game class
	- added varaible for adjusting snake's speed

Changes:
	- minor refactoring
	- cleanup of diagnostic messages
	- fixed bug with score after reset

Changes:
	- partially developed an api to get input for AI.
	Need to add diagonal distance to snake's body
	- added function for printing net input parameters
	- partially tested

Changes:
	- Added class Layer with initial structure
	- Created method Matrix::mutate
	- Added helper function to generate random ints in range
	- Added unit tests for Matrix class

Changes:
	- Added and tested methods to Layer class
	- Finished Snake API
	- Added mat getter to Matrix class
	- Unit tests moved to separate test class

Changes:
	- updated Layer::process
	- added destructor ~Layer
	- added NeuralNet class
	- added helper function to convert std::vector to Matrix object
	- NeuralNet::pass tested prelimenary

Changes:
	- Another c-tor for Layer class added, getters added
	- Added Matrix::clone()
	- Added TestLayer class, crossover tested. To be updated
	- Methods in Matrix reorganized

Changes:
	- Added copy c-top to Layer class
	- Added const qualifiers to some Matrix methods
	- NeuralNet: c-tor from layers and crossover method were implemented
	- Refactoring of tests/main.cpp

Changes:
	- Added SnakeAI class
	- Added test for SnakeAI
	- Slightly changes signature of Snake's methods
	- Added copy c-tor for NeuralNet, tests refactored

Changes:
	- Added Population class
	- Added step() method to Snake class 
		in order to simulate several AIs simultaneously
	- Added another c-tor and randomize() method to Snake class
	- Added test to Population class

### TODO: 

- Thorely test snake api. Make a separape project?
- SnakeAI: generate random food pos, snake pos and snake direction.
	Add food c-tor which accepts color,
	Add paramete wether to draw a snake or not
	This will allow to test several SnakeAI objects visually
	
- how to dump a net to file and resore back?
- Create default c-tor for Food
- Design Population class
- solve Eigen randomizing issues. Test
- Add multithreading for quick computations

### Done:
+ Too many parameters in c-tors: Make singletons for MapPArams and game window
+ design fitness function
+ Design SnakeAI class: snake itself, neural brain, numreb of steps, fitness
+ Add class Net
+ dont forget to add destructors everywhere
+ Rename project to Snake-AI-SFML
+ Develop an API to get inputs for a neural network:
	8 rays from snake's head, eacn ray gievs 3 numbers:
	- distance to wall
	- distance to food (-1 if not encountered)
	- distance to snake's body (-1 if not encountered)
	plus additional input for the length
	plus current direction (in case if snake can kill itsef by changind dir to 180*)

X rework randomizing algorith: food items lay on diagonal y = -x. 
	Consider another random distribution (e.i. normal distribution for 2D points)
+ add some borders to snake's body segments. Draw a line along all bricks
X disable move in reverse direction. Need to make a dicision: either to prohibit such
	behavior or consider it as death
+ rework food spawning: chack for snake body parts
+ mark snake's head with another color
+ upgrade move method: collision detection with walls and with snake itself
+ add score to the screen
+ enable snake growing
+ add speed parameter, tune delay in main cycle to 60 fps

### Idea #1
- Когда будет реализована и отлажена нейросеть, можно реализовать алгоритм борьбы с 
переобучением/запоминаним. Например, drop out

### Idea #2
- Можно реализовать обработку кадра с помощью компьютерного зрения.
Т.е. змейка будет получать не вектор из 25-и параметров, в кадр ака скрин с экрана,
который она должна проанализировать и принять решение куда двигаться. Можно добавить
шумы к кадру, чтобы посложнее было. 
	Цель: повспоминать средства библиотки OpenCV, бинаризацию, поик контуров и т.д.

### Idea #3
- Можно добавить стены! Тогда алгоритм зрения необходимо будет доработать для
распознавания стен


### Notes:
	что требуется, радзработать алгоритм обучения с подкреплением.
	Это один из видов обучения с учителем, где учителем выступает среда.

	Агент действует в среде, среда даёт агенту обратную связь.
	Агент корректирует своё поведение

	Для QLearning есть часть исследования среды

### Изучение проекта SnakeAI

- в качестве функции активации используется relu = max(0, x)
- случайные значения берутся в диапазоне от -1 до 1
- нейросеть представлена таблицей (класс Matrix)
- crossover - перестановка случайных строк таблиц
